NEW   BAIL   RECORD :   Prosecutors   have   alleged   that   the   company ’ s   president   might   have   made   illegal   profits   of   about   NT $ 358m   and   requested   an   overriding   bail   figure 
 Taipei   Dsitrict   Court   staff   yesterday   stack   bundles   of   cash   delivered   by   the   family   and   lawyer   of   Gobo   Group   president   Chu   Guo - rong   to   pay   his   NT $ 400   million   bail .   Photo :   George   Tsorng ,   Taipei   Times 
 By   Jason   Pan   /   Staff   reporter 
 Gobo   Group   （ 国宝 集团 ）   president   Chu   Guo - rong   （ 朱国荣 ） ,   detained   in   relation   to   allegations   of   embezzlement   in   the   CTBC   Financial   Holding   Co   （ 中信 金 ）   case ,   was   yesterday   released   on   a   record - setting   NT $ 400   million   （ US $ 12.74   million ）   bail . 
 Former   CTBC   executives   Wu   Feng - fu   （ 吴 丰富 ）   and   Chang   Yu - chen   （ 张友 琛 ）   were   also   released   after   a   bail   hearing   at   the   Taipei   District   Court .   Wu ’ s   bail   was   set   at   NT $ 35   million ,   while   Chang ’ s   was   NT $ 1.5   million . 
 The   court   set   conditions   on   Chu   and   Wu ’ s   release ,   with   restrictions   on   their   movement ,   including   staying   in   their   own   residences ,   not   leaving   the   nation   and   reporting   to   their   local   police   station   every   day . 
 The   Supreme   Prosecutors ’   Office   Special   Investigation   Division   on   Wednesday   indicted   Jeffrey   Koo   Jr   （ 辜仲谅 ）   and   seven   others ,   including   CTBC   and   Gobo   Group   executives ,   for   allegedly   embezzling   company   funds   and   other   illegal   financial   dealings ,   and   contravening   the   Securities   and   Exchange   Act   （ 证券交易 法 ） ,   the   Money   Laundering   Control   Act   （ 洗钱 防 制法 ）   and   the   Insurance   Act   （ 保险法 ） . 
 Prosecutors   have   alleged   that   Chu   might   have   made   illegal   profits   of   about   NT $ 358   million   through   his   company ’ s   dealings   with   CTBC   and   on   Wednesday   they   asked   the   judges   set   a   very   high   figure   for   Chu ’ s   bail . 
 Chu   was   unable   to   come   up   with   the   required   amount   on   Wednesday   and   spent   another   night   at   the   Taipei   Detention   Center ,   where   he   has   been   held   for   almost   four   months . 
 Chu ’ s   family   and   friends   yesterday   paid   NT $ 120.5   million   of   the   bail   in   cash   and   the   remainder   in   certified   checks . 
 Chu ’ s   sister   was   accompanied   by   a   lawyer   as   she   brought   three   suitcases   and   two   bags   of   cash   to   the   court   in   the   afternoon   to   post   the   bail . 
 The   NT $ 400   million   bail   set   a   new   record   in   Taiwan ,   surpassing   the   NT $ 350   million   imposed   on   former   Eastern   Multimedia   Group   （ EMG ）   chairman   Gary   Wang   （ 王令麟 ）   in   a   2008   EMG   assets   scandal . 
 The   record   cumulative   bail   for   one   person   was   for   former   Ting   Hsin   International   Group   executive   Wei   Ying - chun   （ 魏应充 ）   at   NT $ 1.6   billion ,   which   involved   several   cases   against   him   stemming   from   a   tainted   oil   scandal   in   2013   and   subsequent   litigation . 
 CTBC   lawyers   yesterday   released   a   statement   saying   that   there   is   no   concrete   evidence   of   wrongdoing ,   and   that   “ we   regret   that   prosecutors   made   indictments   based   only   on   inference   and   conjecture . ” 
 “ Jeffrey   Koo   Sr   （ 辜濂松 ）   was   the   founder   of   CTBC   Financial   and   he   was   the   soul   and   leader   of   Chinatrust   Group   companies .   He   played   important   roles   in   the   nation ’ s   business   community   and   government ’ s   cross - strait   affairs   and   had   been   one   of   the   most   respected   business   leaders   in   this   nation ...   Therefore   all   CTBC   employees   were   shocked   and   feel   regret   over   the   charges   by   prosecutors   against   Jeffrey   Koo   Sr , ”   the   lawyers   said . 
 Although   Koo   Sr   died   in   December   2012 ,   prosecutors   also   investigated   him   as   part   of   the   probe   before   dropping   all   charges   against   him . 
 新闻来源 ： TAIPEI   TIMES 
 