‘ BETTER   LATE   THAN   NEVER ’ :   The   passage   makes   Taiwan   the   first   in   the   world   to   have   such   a   law ,   a   legislator   said ,   while   another   said   that   the   nation   still   trails   behind   others 
 Legislators   yesterday   vote   on   Article   6   of   the   Act   on   Financial   Technology   Innovations   and   Experiments   at   the   legislature   in   Taipei .   Photo :   Chen   Chih - chu ,   Taipei   Times 
 By   Sean   Lin   /   Staff   reporter 
 Lawmakers   yesterday   passed   the   Act   on   Financial   Technology   Innovations   and   Experiments   （ 金融 科技 創新 實驗 條例 ）   in   a   bid   to   upgrade   the   nation ’ s   financial   sector   by   granting   technology   firms   more   leeway   when   experimenting   with   innovative   financial   services . 
 The   act   was   inspired   by   a   sandbox   proposed   by   the   UK   Financial   Conduct   Authority   for   field - testing   financial   services   by   tech   firms . 
 Firms   that   have   passed   an   assessment   to   use   the   sandbox   would   be   allowed   to   bypass   —   in   part   or   in   full   —   certain   regulations   after   gaining   the   approval   of   the   Financial   Supervisory   Commission   （ FSC ） ,   the   act   stipulates . 
 The   FSC   is   to   consult   responsible   agencies   when   it   wants   a   test   financial   service   to   be   exempted   from   certain   rules ,   with   the   exception   of   the   Money   Laundering   Control   Act   （ 洗錢 防 製法 ）   and   the   Act   Against   the   Threats   of   Hacking   （ 資恐 防治法 ） ,   which   cannot   be   exempted ,   it   says . 
 In   addition ,   a   review   committee   is   to   be   established   under   the   FSC   to   review   plans . 
 To   promote   innovation ,   the   committee   is   required   to   hire   experts   from   the   private   sector   for   between   one - third   and   half   of   its   staff ,   with   the   rest   composed   of   representatives   from   government   agencies ,   the   act   states . 
 To   avoid   profitability   being   harmed   by   red   tape ,   the   committee   is   to   decide   within   60   days   of   a   submission   whether   it   qualifies   for   the   sandbox .   Approved   plans   would   then   be   given   an   18 - month   time   frame   within   which   firms   would   be   allowed   to   launch   trial   runs   of   their   services . 
 The   18 - month   period   may   be   extended   to   no   more   than   36   months   at   the   discretion   of   the   FSC . 
 The   review   committee   is   to   submit   a   report   to   the   Legislative   Yuan   detailing   the   results   of   a   project   and   which   regulations   should   be   changed   within   90   days   of   the   end   of   a   trial ,   so   that   a   new   service   may   be   put   on   the   financial   market   after   necessary   legal   amendments   are   approved . 
 People   who   experience   financial   losses   as   a   result   of   their   participation   in   a   financial   service   test   are   protected   by   the   Financial   Consumer   Protection   Act   （ 金融 消費者 保護法 ）   and   should   file   complaints   with   the   Financial   Ombudsman   Institution . 
 Democratic   Progressive   Party   Legislator   Karen   Yu   （ 餘 宛如 ） ,   who   initiated   the   bill ,   said   that   the   passage   of   the   act   makes   Taiwan   the   first   nation   in   the   world   to   introduce   a   financial   regulatory   sandbox   law . 
 The   act   would   greatly   increase   the   flexibility   of   financial - oriented   regulations   that   have   been   limiting   innovation ,   Yu   said ,   adding   that   it   would   also   break   down   barriers   between   sectors ,   so   that   tech   and   financial   firms   can   work   together   seamlessly . 
 The   sandbox   model   can   also   be   applied   to   a   variety   of   fields ,   such   as   the   research   and   development   of   drones ,   she   added . 
 Chinese   Nationalist   Party   （ KMT ）   Legislator   Jason   Hsu   （ 許毓仁 ）   said   the   three - year   trial   period   offered   by   the   sandbox   is   the   longest   in   the   world   and   lauded   the   act   as   “ ushering   in   a   new   era   for   Taiwan ’ s   financial   technology . ” 
 He   said   the   legislation   came   later   than   some   would   have   hoped ,   as   the   nation ’ s   achievements   in   innovative   financial   services   have   trailed   behind   several   others   in   the   region   such   as   Hong   Kong   and   South   Korea ,   but   the   passage   of   the   act   was   “ better   late   than   never . ” 
 新聞來源 ： TAIPEI   TIMES 
 