CROSS - STRAIT   DEAL :   Prosecutors   cited   a   case   in   which   Jeffrey   Koo   Jr   and   his   father   pocketed   US $ 27m   after   they   used   CTBC   Financial ’ s   money   to   buy   property   in   Beijing 
 By   Jason   Pan   /   Staff   reporter ,   with   CNA 
 The   Special   Investigation   Division   of   the   Supreme   Prosecutors ’   Office   yesterday   indicted   Jeffrey   Koo   Jr   （ 辜仲諒 ）   and   other   executives   of   CTBC   Financial   Holding   Co   （ 中信 金 ）   for   allegedly   embezzling   company   funds   and   other   illegal   financial   dealings   involving   the   several   of   the   nation ’ s   large   conglomerates   and   their   subsidiaries . 
 Wrapping   up   an   almost   five - month   investigation ,   prosecutors   indicted   Koo   and   seven   others   for   violating   the   Securities   and   Exchange   Act   （ 證券交易 法 ） ,   the   Money   Laundering   Control   Act   （ 洗錢 防 製法 ）   and   the   Insurance   Act   （ 保險法 ） . 
 Koo   was   charged   with   four   counts   of   embezzlement ,   three   of   which   involved   transferring   a   combined   US $ 300   million   from   CTBC   Financial   to   accounts   controlled   by   Koo   and   his   father ,   Jeffrey   Koo   Sr   （ 辜濂松 ） ,   from   2004   to   2007 . 
 Prosecutors   said   the   Koos   teamed   up   with   other   CTBC   Financial   executives   to   make   the   transfers . 
 The   seven   others   indicted   were   former   CTBC   Financial   chief   financial   officer   Perry   Chang   （ 張明田 ） ,   CTBC   executives   Wu   Feng - fu   （ 吳 豐富 ） ,   Chang   Yu - chen   （ 張友 琛 ） ,   Chang   Su - chu   （ 張素 珠 ）   and   Steven   Chen   （ 陳俊哲 ） ,   Koo   Sr ’ s   son - in - law ,   as   well   as   Gobo   Group   （ 國寶 集團 ）   president   Chu   Guo - rong   （ 朱國榮 ）   and   his   assistant ,   Lin   Kui - hsin   （ 林桂馨 ） . 
 In   one   of   the   cases   cited   by   prosecutors ,   the   Koos   pocketed   a   combined   US $ 27   million   in   a   deal   in   which   they   used   CTBC   Financial ’ s   money   to   buy   property   in   Beijing ,   adding   that   Koo   Jr   used   some   of   the   funds   to   buy   property   in   Taipei ’ s   Tianmu   （ 天母 ）   area . 
 As   Koo   Sr   died   in   December   2012 ,   prosecutors   said   they   had   dropped   the   charges   against   him . 
 “ We   are   disappointed   about   the   indictment .   The   prosecutors   provided   updates   to   the   media   over   the   course   of   the   investigation   and   we   regret   such   actions .   We   shall   provide   evidence   to   prove   our   innocence   in   the   upcoming   court   hearing , ”   Koo   Jr   said   in   a   statement   issued   by   his   lawyers . 
 The   statement   said   that   CTBC   Financial   had   already   stated   that   the   company   did   not   suffer   any   loss   during   the   aforementioned   period   and   that   it   had   even   made   a   profit . 
 “ Therefore   no   embezzlement ,   and   no   breach   of   trust   had   taken   place .   Jeffrey   Koo   Jr   again   expresses   his   regret   over   the   prosecutors ’   decision   to   press   charges   without   properly   investigating   the   facts   of   the   case , ”   the   statement   said . 
 It   said   Koo   Sr   had   been   an   ambassador - at - large   for   the   government ,   conducted   diplomatic   missions   around   the   world   and   “ that   we   were   astounded   to   learn   that   Koo   Sr   had   also   been   charged   with   embezzlement   in   the   case ,   as   he   does   not   have   the   opportunity   to   defend   himself . ” 
 The   other   case   for   which   Koo   Jr   was   indicted   involved   the   use   of   funds   from   the   group ’ s   insurance   arm ,   CTBC   Life   Insurance   Co   （ 中信 人壽 ） ,   to   purchase   real   estate   from   Gobo   Group   at   an   unfairly   high   price   in   2014   and   last   year ,   which   helped   Gobo   profit   from   the   deal . 
 Prosecutors   said   the   purchases   were   to   secure   Chu ’ s   support   for   CTBC   Financial ’ s   merger   with   Taiwan   Life   Insurance   Co   （ 臺灣 人壽 ） . 
 Chu   was   one   of   Taiwan   Life ’ s   major   shareholders   at   the   time . 
 Koo   Jr   serves   as   chairman   of   the   Chinatrust   Charity   Foundation ,   but   prosecutors   said   he   has   long   been   the   person   responsible   for   CTBC   Financial ’ s   day - to - day   operations ,   including   during   the   time   the   funds   were   allegedly   embezzled . 
 Koo   Jr   is   also   the   owner   of   Brothers   Baseball   Club ,   a   team   in   the   nation ’ s   professional   baseball   league ,   which   he   bought   from   its   previous   owners   for   NT $ 400   million   in   2013 . 
 新聞來源 ： TAIPEI   TIMES 
 